24.0.0.6-beta staging (#3803)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2024-06-04-24.0.0.6-beta.adoc

// Change SUB_FEATURE_TITLE to the feature that is included in this release and
// change the SUB_TAG_1/2/3 to the heading tags
//
// However if there's only 1 new feature, delete the previous section and change it to the following sentence:
// "The link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 24.0.0.6-beta includes SUB_FEATURE_TITLE"
// // // // // // // //

See also link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=beta&key=tag[previous Open Liberty beta blog posts].

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // //
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/28397
// Contact/Reviewer: mswatosh
// // // // // // // //
[#validate]
== Validate Java constraints and records with Jakarta Validation 3.1

Jakarta Validation provides a mechanism to validate constraints that are imposed on Java objects by using annotations. The most noticeable change in version 3.1 is the name change, from Jakarta Bean Validation to  Jakarta Validation. This version also includes explicit support for validating Java record classes, which were added in Java 16. Records reduce much the boilerplate code in simple data classes, and pair nicely with Jakarta Validation.

> <_insert explanation of these code examples_>

Reviewer: @mswatosh can you provide a brief description of the context and value of these examples?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the simplicity of defining a Java record with Jakarta Validation annotations, as well as performing validation.```

application_alpha_timer_stddev_seconds 1.9997750210918204
# TYPE alpha_timer_seconds histogram <1>
application_alpha_timer_seconds_bucket{le="0.1"} 0.0 <2>
application_alpha_timer_seconds_bucket{le="0.2"} 0.0 <2>
application_alpha_timer_seconds_bucket{le="1.0"} 1.0 <2>
application_alpha_timer_seconds_bucket{le="+Inf"} 2.0 <2> <3>
application_alpha_timer_seconds_count 2
application_alpha_timer_seconds_sum 6.0
application_alpha_timer_seconds{quantile="0.5"} 1.0
application_alpha_timer_seconds{quantile="0.7"} 5.0
application_alpha_timer_seconds{quantile="0.75"} 5.0
application_alpha_timer_seconds{quantile="0.8"} 5.0
----

<1> The Prometheus metric type is `histogram`. Both the quantiles/percentile and buckets are represented under this type.
<2> The `le` tag represents _less than_ and is for the defined buckets, which are converted to seconds.
<3> Prometheus requires that a `+Inf` bucket counts all hits.

// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC>

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // //
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/28337
// Contact/Reviewer: anjumfatima90
// // // // // // // //
[#jcache]

> == InstantOn support distributed HTTP session caching

Reviewer 3: Should this be `InstantOn support for distributed HTTP session caching` ?

Reviewer: fixed here and in anchor list

The 24.0.0.6-beta release provides InstantOn support for the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/sessionCache-1.0.html[JCache Session Persistence] feature. This feature uses a JCache provider to create a distributed in-memory cache. Distributed session caching is achieved when the server is connected to at least one other server to form a cluster. Open Liberty servers can behave in the following ways in a cluster.

- Client-server model: An Open Liberty server can act as the JCache client and connect to a dedicated JCache server.
- Peer-to-Peer model: An Open Liberty server can connect with other Open Liberty servers that are also running with the JCache Session Persistence feature and configured to be part of the same cluster.

To enable JCache Session Persistence, the `sessionCache-1.0` feature must be enabled in your `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<feature>sessionCache-1.0</feature>
----

> You can configure the client/server model in the `server.xml`` file, similar to the following example.

Reviewer 3: Extra ` after server.xml.

Reviewer: fixed

[source,xml]
----
<library id="InfinispanLib">
    <fileset dir="${shared.resource.dir}/infinispan" includes="*.jar"/>
</library>
<httpSessionCache cacheManagerRef="CacheManager"/>
<cacheManager id="CacheManager">
    <properties
        infinispan.client.hotrod.server_list="infinispan-server:11222"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.auth_username="sampleUser"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.auth_password="samplePassword"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.auth_realm="default"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.sasl_mechanism="PLAIN"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.java_serial_whitelist=".*"
        infinispan.client.hotrod.marshaller=
            "org.infinispan.commons.marshall.JavaSerializationMarshaller"/>
    <cachingProvider jCacheLibraryRef="InfinispanLib" />
</cacheManager>
----

You can configure the peer-to-peer model in the `server.xml` file, similar to the following example.

[source,xml]
----
<library id="JCacheLib">
    <file name="${shared.resource.dir}/hazelcast/hazelcast.jar"/>
</library>

<httpSessionCache cacheManagerRef="CacheManager"/>

<cacheManager id="CacheManager" >
    <cachingProvider jCacheLibraryRef="JCacheLib" />
</cacheManager>
----

**Note:**

> In order to provide InstantOn support for the peer-to-peer model by using Infinispan as a JCache Provider, you must use Infinispan 12 or later. You must also enable link:{url-prefiux}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpReactiveStreams-3.0.html[MicroProfile Reactive Streams 3.0] or later and link:{url-prefix}docs/latest/reference/feature/mpMetrics-4.0.html[MicroProfile Metrics 4.0] or later must in the `server.xml` file, in addition to the JCache Session Persistence feature.

Reviewer 3: Must should be removed in the line `or later must in the server.xml`

Reviewer: fixed

//
// However if there's only 1 new feature, delete the previous section and change it to the following sentence:
// "The link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 24.0.0.6-beta includes SUB_FEATURE_TITLE"
// // // // // // // //

See also link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=beta&key=tag[previous Open Liberty beta blog posts].

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // //
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/28397
// Contact/Reviewer: mswatosh
// // // // // // // //
[#validate]
== Validate Java constraints and records with Jakarta Validation 3.1

Jakarta Validation provides a mechanism to validate constraints that are imposed on Java objects by using annotations. The most noticeable change in version 3.1 is the name change, from Jakarta Bean Validation to  Jakarta Validation. This version also includes explicit support for validating Java record classes, which were added in Java 16. Records reduce much the boilerplate code in simple data classes, and pair nicely with Jakarta Validation.

The following examples demonstrate the simplicity of defining a Java record with Jakarta Validation annotations, as well as performing validation.

> In this example, an `Employee` record is defined with two fields, `empid` and `email`.

Reviewer: @mswatosh - are these descriptions ok?

[source,java]
----

> public record Employee(@NotNull String empid, @Valid EmailAddress email) {}
> ----
> 
> The `@NotNull` annotation specifies that `empid` cannot be an empty string, while the `@Valid` annotation specifies that the value for `email` must be valid according to the constraints defined in the `EmailAddress` class.
> 
> In this example, a validator is created to check the specified `Employee` values against the constraints that were set in the previous example.
> 
> [source,java]
> ----
> Employee employee = new Employee("12432", new EmailAddress("mark@example.com"));
> Set<ConstraintViolation<Employee>> violations = validator.validate(employee);
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public record Employee(@NotEmpty String empid, @Email String email) {}
----

The `@NotEmpty` annotation specifies that `empid` cannot be an empty string, while the `@Email` annotation specifies that the value for `email` must be a properly formatted email address.

In this example, a validator is created to check the specified `Employee` values against the constraints that were set in the previous example.

[source,java]
----
Employee employee = new Employee("12432", "mark@example.com");
Set<ConstraintViolation<Employee>> violations = validator.validate(employee);
----

```
Switched to better Validation annotations that should be easier to follow
